# Spring Basics

### Inversion of Control
- A principle where control of objects or portions of a program given to a container/framework. The framework takes control of the flow of a program and makes calls to our code.

### Spring IOC Container
- The interface *ApplicationContext* represents the Spring IOC container. There are several implementations of this interface, including the *WebApplicationContext* for web applications.
- The IOC container manages Beans using configuration metadata, which is found via XML configuration or annotations
- Essentially takes care of object's life cycle along with their dependencies

>Beans
>A bean in Spring is an object that is instantiated, created, and managed by the IOC. Essentially, the backbone POJO's of the application are beans when given proper Spring annotations and handled by the IOC.


### Dependency Injection
- Connecting objects to other objects is done via the assembler rather than objects themselves. The following is an example of this in the traditional programming sense.
```java
//dependency injection
private Object o;
public Constructor(Object o) {
	this.o = 0;
}
//no dependency injection
private Object o
public Constructor() {
	this.o = new Object();
}
```
In Spring, Beans can be initialized with Dependency Injection via XML files or Java files. To do this with Java files, and example is shown below:

```java
@Configuration
public class AppConfig {

    @Bean
    public UserService userService() {
        // Instantiate and configure UserService object
        return new UserService();
        // Can also pass parameters to the UserService constructor
        // UserService might be a POJO defined in the project or might not be
    }
    // Additional @Bean methods can be defined here
}
```

To import one configuration file into another, can use the following annotation: 
```java
@Configuration 
@Import(AppConfig.class) //Class name of previous configuration
public class RootConfig { 
	// Other configuration settings 
}
```
To enable this configuration, there are a few ways:
1. Have the statement  `AnnotationConfigApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext(AppConfig.class);`
2. If Spring Boot is being used, can (should) use the following annotation: `@SpringBootApplication ( scanBasePackages = { "com.packagename" } )` which will scan the given package and its subpackages for config files. Spring boot enables Java Configuration by default

### Spring Containers
#### Core
Contains the following modules:
- Core: Key module of Spring which provides fundamental support which other modules depend on
- Bean: Provides the BeanFactory
- Context: Provides ApplicationContext (which inherits basic features of BeanFactory) and provides features to support application development
- SpEL (Spring Expression Language): Used for querying/manipulating object values
- Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP): Help in isolating cross-cutting functionality from business logic.

#### Data Access Layer
- JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) module: Provides access layer to support calls to relational databases
- ORM (Object Relational Mapping) module: Provides integration support for popular ORM solutions like Hibernate and JPA
- Transactions module: Provides simple transaction API to abstract the complexity of the underlying repository specific transaction API's

### Web Layer
- Web: Module which contains the WebApplicationContext and basic web features
- Webmvc: Provides MVC implementation to implement serverside presentation layer and support RESTful web services
- WebSocket: Used for 2 way communication between client and server in WebSocket based web applications

### Autowiring and Components
The `@Component` is similar to `@Bean`. It will enable a class to become eligible for auto-detection and auto-configuration as a Spring bean. This essentially means that this class is eligible to become a Spring Bean. 

The `@Autowired` annotation enables a component for Spring's automatic dependency injection. This can be used on fields, setters, and constructors.

#### Use of @Autowired
- On a field, it means that Spring can automatically populate a field with a Bean it is managing.
- On a setter, it means that setter method is called with the instance of a field when a class is created
- This annotation cannot be used for primitive values
```java
//The bean to be injected for all examples:
@Component
public class FooFormatter {
	public String format() {
		return "foo";
	}
}
//-------------------
//---------FILEDS----------

//This doesn't need to be another component, but can be a REST class or something else. Like if the above component was a logger it could be shared among many classes using Spring's DI
@Component 
public class FooService {
	@Autowired
	private FooFormatter fooFormatter; //Injected when FooService is created
}

//---------SETTERS----------
public class FooService {
	private FooFormatter fooFormatter;
	@Autowired
	public void setFormatter(FooFormatter fooFormatter) {
		this.fooFormatter = fooFormatter;
	}
	//The above setter will be called with the fooFormatter field when FooService is created
}

//----------CONSTRUCTORS---------
//The code below will inject the FooService constructor with an instance of FooFormatter. This injection will be done by Spring automatically
public class FooService {
	private FooFormatter fooFormatter;
	@Autowired
	public FooService(FooFormatter fooFormatter) {
		this.fooFormatter = fooFormatter;
	}
}
```

But what if the Bean to inject is ambiguous? For example there are the following two component classes:
- `public class FooFormatter implements Formatter`
- `public class BarFormatter implments Formatter`

And the following class with a field we want to inject:
```java
public class FooService {
	@Autowired
	private Formatter formatter;
}
```

Spring will not know whether to inject FooFormatter or BarFormatter, so adding the following annotation directly under `@Autowired` will let Spring know which to select from:
- `@Qualifier("fooFormatter")`

### Bean Scope
The Bean Scope determines the scope of any given Bean that is initialized. There are multiple different Scopes however the two main ones are *Singleton* and *Prototype*.
- **Singleton**: The same Bean will be used for every request from the application
- **Prototype**: A new Bean will be created for every request from the application

Using Java Configuration, the default bean scope is *Singleton*, but to change that the *@Scope* annotation can be used as follows:
- Import `org.springframework.context.annotation.Scope`
- Use the `@Scope` annotation like `@Scope("prototype")`
	- This can be used on a method annotated with `@Bean` or a class annotated with `@Component`


