Python is a dynamically typed interpreted language frequently with syntax that can be very similar to pseudocode. It has a wide array of applications including AI and Machine Learning, web application backend code, CI/CD scripts, and more.
- One very noteworthy thing about Python is indentation based. This means that indentation is significant unlike many other languages. 

```python
# Single line comments are like this

""" Multiline strings are
    commonly used
    for documentation
"""

print('Print with the print function')

x = "Python variables"
y = "valid "
z = "expressions"
print(f"You can insert {x} or {y + z} into strings / printing with f-strings")

string = input("get console input with the input function: ")

# will print with ! at the end
print("Print ends with \n by default, but you can change that", end="!")
```

### Primitive Data Types
Python has a few primitive data types. The type of anything, including primitives, collections, and objects can be obtained via the `type(var)` function. 
- ***Numbers*** 
	- Includes integers and floats
	- There is no post or pre-increment operator
		- No `i++` or `++i`
	- Cast a value to an int or float via the `int(x)` or `float(x)` functions
- ***Strings***
	- Can be made with both single and double quotes
	- Get length of a string with `len(string)`
		- `len("my string") => 9`
	- Can concatenate strings with `+`
		- `print("Hello " + "World!") => "Hello World!"`
	- String literals can be concatenated without a `+`
		- This does not work with variables, both values must be string literals
		- `print("Hello " "World!") => "Hello World!"`
	- Can index into a string as if it was a list of characters
		- `"Hello"[0] => 'H'`
	- Insert values into Strings using f-strings like demonstrated at the top of the document
		- Similar to JavaScripts backtick strings
	- Cast a value to a string using the `str(x)` function
	- Some useful string methods:
		- `str.upper()` and `str.lower()` to change case
		- No substring or charAt, use `str[start:end]` and `str[idx]`, more info in [[2. Collections#Lists|the Lists section]]
		- `format(**kwargs)` to format a string like in f-strings
			- `"My name is {name}".format(name="john")`
- ***Booleans***
	- Value is `True` and `False` - notice the capitalization
		- Are just `1` and `0` but with different keywords
		- `True + True == 2`
	- Negated with the `not` keyword
	- Falsy values are below, everything else is true:
		- `None` - Python equivalent to null
		- `0`
		- `""` and `''`
		- `[]`, `{}`, `()`, and `set()`
			- Empty array, list, dicts, tuples, and sets
	- To evaluate / cast to a boolean, wrap it in the `bool()` function
		- Not always necessary, like for conditionals, but is necessary for printing

> Side note: `None` is an object. Always use `is` to compare to `None` instead of `==`. The difference is highlighted in the below Comparisons section.

Below are quick code examples / explanations of basic boolean simplification and Math with primitive data types
```python
# Boolean Stuff
bool(0)          # False
bool(7 and True) # True
bool({})         # False

# Need to use bool() to cast
# Otherwise it evaluates the expression and returns the result
2 and 3       # 3
-8 or 4       # -8
bool(2 and 3) # True
bool(0 or 0)  # False
bool(-8 or 4) # True


# Math
# Most math is as one would expect, Parenthesis evaluated first
1 + 3 * 2   # 7
(1 + 3) * 2 # 8

# The result of division is always a float
10 / 3 # 3.3333333333333335
9 / 3  # 3.0

# Use floor division to round the answer down.
10 // 3 # 3
9 // 3  # -3

# It always rounds towards negative infinity
5 / 3      # 1.6666666666666667
5 // 3     # 1
5.0 // 3.0 # 1.0
-5 // 3.   # -2.0

# Exponentiation is done with **
2 ** 3   # 8
9 ** 0.5 # 3.0

# Modulo i % j will have the sign of j
7 % 3  # 1
-7 % 3 # 2
```
### Comparisons
A few notes about Python comparisons that other languages might not have
- Chaining comparisons is allowed
- There are two equality operators `is` and `==`
	- `is` checks for memory reference, returns `true` if two things point to the same object
	- `==` checks for value, returns `true` if the values are the same
- Despite the not operator being `not` instead of `!` "not equals" is still `!=`

```python
1 == 1 # True
1 != 1 # False
1 != 2 # True

1 < 2 and 2 < 3   # True
1 < 20 and 20 < 3 # False
1 < 2 < 3         # True
1 < 20 < 3        # False

a = [1, 2, 3, 4] # Point to new list
b = a  # Point b to where a is pointing to
b is a # True
b == a # True
b = [1, 2, 3, 4] # Point b to a new list
b is a # False
b == a # True

# Since strings are primitive, this experiment will always yeild true for strings
# Unlike Java in that regard
```

### Variables
Since Python is dynamically typed, no type declaration is needed to declare variables. But unlike some other dynamically typed languages (like JavaScript) no keyword is necessary either.
- Variable naming is done with `snake_case`
	- This is just good styling and practice and is not enforced by the language itself
- ***There are no constants in Python***
	- Use `UPPER_SNAKE_CASE` to show a variable should be constant, but it is not enforced
	- Can import `typing.Final` to show static type checkers a variable should be constant, but it **does not prevent reassignment**

```python
my_x = 5
my_y = 10
my_z = x + y
my_z = "string"
print(my_z) # Prints string, no issues with types

# pseudo constant variable
from typing import Final
a: Final[int] = 1
a = 2 # Will execute fine but checkers will report an error
```

Python uses *duck typing*. Essentially, it looks like a duck and behaves like a duck, so it's a duck. Put more eloquently:

> Python does not have variables in the traditional sense where language variables have a value and type. It has names that point to objects, which have a value and know their type

A lot of Python runs on the basis that developers know what they are doing. There are lots of ways to indicate intent that Python does not enforce. 
- Final variables are one example of this